Order of the relevant processing steps:
1) BCFTOOLS_EXTRACT_STRAINS
2) BCFTOOLS_RENAME_CHROMS
3) PLINK_RECODE_VCF
4) BCFTOOLS_CREATE_GENOTYPE_MATRIX
5) PYTHON_SIMULATE_EFFECTS_GLOBAL 
6) GCTA_SIMULATE_PHENOTYPES
7) PLINK_UPDATE_BY_H2 
8) GCTA_MAKE_GRM
9) PYTHON_CHECK_VP
10) GCTA_PERFORM_GWA
# Checking for a discrepancy between SNPs in plink files and the SNPs in the genotype matrix.

Since the causal variants were missing from the genotype matrix, I initially thought this was an error with upstream processes generating slightly different SNP sets.

I initially thought this was an issue with the processes used to generate the plink files (PLINK_RECODE_VCF) and checked the intermediate files generated by this process.

## Intermediate files for PLINK processes 
I pulled the intermediate files for this process from the NF workdir for the problematic strainsetcb.strain.set.290_literal.harborporpoise from the .nextflow.log file associated with the run of the pipeline that produced this error (workDir: /scratch4/eande106/Ryan/2025_briggsae_gwas_strainset_sims/d8/473ddd25f69eea4f4a3d134f3b4856)

To inspect these files I downloaded them locally into the folder 20250527_Troubleshoot_Assess/PLINK_RECODE_VCF which is included in the gm_missing_snps branch of the repo and checked with the Rcode 20250527_Troubleshoot_Assess/troubleshooting_notes.Rmd also present in that branch.

I looked for the causal variants specified in the .par file used by Assess_Sims.R in several files (20250527_Troubleshoot_Assess/R_ASSESS_SIMS/5_2_0.2_0.05_gamma_cb.strain.set.290_literal.harborporpoise_sims.par) in the troubleshooting branch for the repo.

### Markers.txt
This file contains the SNPs to include as markers and is passed to the BCFTOOLS_CREATE_GENOTYPE_MATRIX process. 

I found that the file did not contain all of the causal variants specified in the .par
file. 

### Check plink.prune.in
Next, I checked the SNPs included in the plink.prune.in generated by plink, and used to create the markers.txt file. 

We would expect this file to contain the causal variants in the .par file because it is used to generate the .bim files used to select the causal variants.

Notably, This file did not contain the causal variants
### Check .bim file. 
Finally I checked the actual TO_SIMS.bim file that is used in the PYTHON_SIMULATE_EFFECTS_GLOBAL process to generate the simulated phenotypes and the .par file.

I found that the variants were not included here either which was completely unexpected.

## Checking intermediate files for PYTHON_SIMULATE_EFFECTS_GLOBAL
This is where things get a bit interesting, I pulled the workdir for this strain set from the log file (workDir: /scratch4/eande106/Ryan/2025_briggsae_gwas_strainset_sims/de/c52cf5c018104428c660cd730f59b1) and placed the files in the 20250527_Troubleshoot_Assess/PYTHON_SIMULATE_EFFECTS_GLOBAL
directory. 

I immediately noticed that the variants selected by the process were not the same variants as those in the .par file used by the R_ASSESS_SIMS process.

Causal variants selected by the python script (20250527_Troubleshoot_Assess/PYTHON_SIMULATE_EFFECTS_GLOBAL/causal.variants.sim.5.2.txt):

```
5:10990342   0.06393645904282494
2:13860541   1.118207303952012
5:5891029    5.2693491200062475e-05
2:4708595    -0.001335275395026517
2:12530563   2.8363713195794027
```

Causal variants defined in the .par file input to R_ASSESS_SIMS:

```
QTL          RefAllele   Frequency   Effect
2:7048622    T           0.0551724   0.00252733
3:948637     C           0.0586207   -0.0949216
4:13685475   T           0.0689655   -2.8376
5:16111836   C           0.486207    -0.0834165
6:2671350    G           0.206897    0.257334
```

This is very strange, so I next looked at the intermediate files for the process that actually generates the .par file - GCTA_SIMULATE_PHENOTYPES
## Intermediate files for GCTA_SIMULATE_PHENOTYPES
Workdir: /scratch4/eande106/Ryan/2025_briggsae_gwas_strainset_sims/5e/1ea80dee95efceea22e1596577d9bf

Downloaded files to 20250527_Troubleshoot_Assess/GCTA_SIMULATE_PHENOTYPES

Looking at these files, I found that the .par file created by this process actually contains the correct variants (consistent with the variants selected by PYTHON_SIMULATE_EFFECTS_GLOBAL):

```
QTL          RefAllele   Frequency   Effect
2:4708595    G           0.455172    -0.00133528
2:12530563   T           0.0896552   2.83637
2:13860541   T           0.155172    1.11821
5:5891029    T           0.406897    5.26935e-05
5:10990342   A           0.0551724   0.0639365
```

This suggested to me that in a later process, the .par files were swapped between simulation replicates.

I kept stepping through the simulation processes and inspecting intermediate files until I noticed that the .par file was swapped. Until I found the .par file no longer contained the correct causal variants after GCTA_PERFORM_GWA