Possible steps that could generated a discrepency between the genotype matrix and the causal variants.

`-R` command is applied when creating the genotype matrix. This might be new - No it has been maintained since the initial commit.

Sequence of processing steps

1) BCFTOOLS_EXTRACT_STRAINS
2) BCFTOOLS_RENAME_CHROMS
3) PLINK_RECODE_VCF
4) BCFTOOLS_CREATE_GENOTYPE_MATRIX

There could be a discrepency between the file containing the markers and the plink files we use?

# `PLINK_RECODE_VCF`
The process `PLINK_RECODE_VCF` runs two plink commands.

First, it takes the VCF file and performs LD pruning with the `--indep-pairwise 50 10 0.8` command. This outputs a set of plink files, of which is the `plink.prune.in` file used by the second plink command and used in the final step to create the `markers.txt` file used to generate the genotype matrix.

Other filtering parameters specified in the first command:
`--snps-only`:
`--biallelic-only`
`--maf`
`--set-missing-var-ids`
`--geno`
`--not-chr`: SPECIFIC TO FIRST PLINK COMMAND

All the files generated by the first plink command should be stored with the `plink.prune.in` prefix.
- Per the [plink documentation](https://www.cog-genomics.org/plink/1.9/ld#indep) the `--indep-pairwise` command produces: "a pruned subset of of markers that are in appximate linkage equilibrium with each other, writing the IDs to `plink.prune.in` (and the IDs of all excluded variants to `plink.prune.out`). (Results may be slightly different from PLINK 1.07, due to a minor bugfix in the r2 computation when missing data is present, and more systematic handling of multicollinearity.) Output files are valid input for --extract/--exclude in a future PLINK run.

Second, the process runs a plink command to generate a set of plink files for downstream processing with the `--recode` command



## Checking the plink files generated by the plink commands for the problematic strain set - `cb.strain.set.290_literal.harborporpoise`
Pulled from the `.nextflow.log` file

```
May-27 13:12:55.130 [Task submitter] DEBUG nextflow.executor.GridTaskHandler - [SLURM] submitted process PLINK_RECODE_VCF (cb.strain.set.290_literal.harborporpoise_0.05) > jobId: 3127106; workDir: /scratch4/eande106/Ryan/2025_briggsae_gwas_strainset_sims/d8/473ddd25f69eea4f4a3d134f3b4856
May-27 13:12:55.130 [Task submitter] INFO  nextflow.Session - [d8/473ddd] Submitted process > PLINK_RECODE_VCF (cb.strain.set.290_literal.harborporpoise_0.05)
```
**Three of the causal variants selected are not in the markers.txt file** see script: `check_plink.Rmd` 

This would suggest that they are included in the TO_SIMs plink files, but are not included in the genotype matrix